---
layout: post
title: Course Summary
permalink: /Course-Summary/
mathjax: true
---

## MATH 2720 (01) - DISCRETE MATHEMATICS

### Course Summary:

A mathematical statement is made up of a hypothesis and a conclusion. Implications are an if then relationship. Implications are always true unless, the condition is met but the outcome is not as expected. I personally connect this with my experience with coding and conditional statements as well as loop structures.

Next we move into sets. Once again I was able to connect the idea of sets with arrays/sets/lists in programming. In most languages sets exist and they work in the same way. They are an unordered collection of objects/data. Sets and their relationships are the fundamentals or discrete math.

I know this may be getting repetitive but my relation to these various topics to my background in coding really helps. This stays true with functions. Functions are essentialy a set of instructions that take input and give output. In code the input is called a parameter. Based on that parameter your output will change. The domain is a bit harder to translate to code but it is still similar to specific statically typed languages where you must specify the type of data that can be put into the function. The allowable outputs or the codomain can be related to a return type in most languages.

Now its time to stray away from coding examples for the most part, enter counting.

Starting off with the additive and multiplicative principles. The additive principle basically means that when A OR B can occur you add these possiblities. For example, if you are deciding wehter to eat a hot dog OR a burger, there are two possibilities because $1+1=2$. The multiplicative principle means that when A AND B must both occur you multiply these possibilities. For example, if you are choosing an outfit and have to pick a shirt from a selection of 6 AND a pair of paints from a selection of 3 there are 18 possible outfits because $6*3 = 18$

Next up is binomial coefficients.
Bit-strings, lattice paths, and binomial coefficients all coresepond.
“n choose k” is the number of n-bit strings of weight k. n is the same as the number of lattice paths, and as we know each lattice path is a bit string. This is the correspondence between bit-strings, lattice paths, and binomial coefficients.

Onto combinations and permutations. A permutation is a possible arrangment of objects disregarding order $P(n,k)$. A combination is a possible arrangment of objects where the order matters $n\choose k$.

Starts and Bars!
Stars and bars is a way to look at a problem to find its total amount of combinations and account for over counting. The number of stars corresponds with the number of unchanging objects. The number of bars is the number of changing objects -1. For example:

You have 7 cookies to give to 4 kids. How many ways can you do that? \
In this case our 7 stars represent the number of cookies because no matter what these dont change. \
Our 3 bars represent the numbers of children or thing we are giving the objects to -1.

⭐⭐|⭐⭐⭐|⭐|⭐
This diagram depicts child A getting two stars, child B getting 3 stars and child C and D getting 1 star. \
The way we get the number of ways to distribute the cookies is: $${stars+bars\choose bars}$$ In this case the answer is $10\choose 3$.

Now onto sequences! This has been one of my favorite units to work on simple because I get it. Sequences are just an ordered group of objects. nth terms are essentially just indices in a list. In fact they are even called indices in math! Even the idea of recursive definition was a breeze because recrsively defined functions exist in comp sci.

A closed formula is just like a regular function, essentially a simple set of instructions one must follow to get $a_n$ or their return value.

A recursive definition for a sequence is one where you must have at least the previous term to get the next.

There are also different types of sequences. The two we talked about were Arithmetic and Geometric sequences.

Arithmetic sequences are when you at or subtract a number to get the next member of the sequence.

Geometric sequences are when you multiply or divide to get the next number in the sequence.

Now polynomial fitting was a bit of a tricky one for me because I did not pay much attention during my highschool math classes. However, I was still able to pick up quickly. Polynomials are defined by their degree and you can get the degree of a sequence by finding its constant differences. Depending on how many tries it takes to get this constant difference is your degree of polynomial.

Finding the roots of this polynomial and solving for the system of equations it gives you, you can find the closed formula for the sequence.

Solving recurrence relations was of mild difficulty for me. The idea of a recursive definition was familiar for me but the thought of being able to get any nth term of the fibonacci sequence is sort of mind boggling.

There are once again multiple ways to do this. One way is called telescoping which is where many terms in a large sum cancel out leaving you with the first term + the final term.

Another way to solve reccurence realtions is iteration. Iteration, jsut like in computer science is the idea of doing something over and over again simply replugging in the formula for $a_n$. The key difference here is that this iteration is to find a specific pattern. This one was more work but easier to understand for me than telescoping.

Now finally for my favorite technique is the characteristic root technic. Here you essentially create a quadratic for your recursively defined function. Then find the roots and plug them in for a and b in the equation $a_n = ar^{n}_1 + br^{n}_2$

Propositional logic is a way of evaluating a logical expression in an abstract fashion. It is abstract in the sense that you dont care what the actual scenario is, just what the possibilities of that scenario are. The main way of expressing these logical evaluations are truth tables. These truth tables show every possible output for every condition in a logical statement.

Proofs are how we definitively can tell if a statment is true. There are various types of proofs however they all achieve the same thing, regardless of style change. The most basic proof is a direct proof which follows the format "Assume P. Explain, explain, …, explain. Therefore Q.". Another type of proof is a proof by contraposotive which takes the form "Asumme ¬Q. Explain Explain, explain, … explain. Therefore ¬P.". There is also proof by contradiction in which you disprove the opposite statement which in turn proves the original statement.
