---
layout: post
title: Journal Entry 3
permalink: /Week-Three/
---

## MATH 2720 (01) - DISCRETE MATHEMATICS

## Week 3

### Scenario -

Explain the trichotomy between bit-strings, binomial coefficients, and lattice paths. Be sure to include at least two examples.

### Response -

Bit-strings, lattice paths, and binomial coefficients all coresepond.

"n choose k" is the number of n-bit strings of weight k. n is the same as the number of lattice paths, and as we know each lattice path is a bit string. This is the correspondence between bit-strings, lattice paths, and binomial coefficients.

### Example 1:

In how many ways, it is possible to draw exactly 6 cards from a pack of 10 cards?

### Solution 1:

So there are 10 possible cards or, lattice paths/bit strings (n). 6 is the amount we wish to get or the weight (k). In this way we know our binomial coefficient to be "10 choose 6" or C(10,6). We then must compute the formula 10!/[6!(10-6)!] which ends up being 210 meaning there are 210 ways of drawing 6 cards form a pack of 10.

### Example 2:

In how many ways, it is possible to enchant a diamond pickaxe with 3 enchantments with no repeats when there are 5 possible enchants?

### Solution 2:

So there are 5 possible enchants or, lattice paths/bit strings (n). We want to enchant our pickaxe with 3 of these making out weight 3 (k). This makes our binomial coefficient "5 choose 3". We then must compute the formula 5!/[3!(5-3)!] which ends up being 10 meaning there are 10 ways to enchant a diamond pickaxe with 3 different enchantments.
