---
layout: post
title: Journal Entry 4
permalink: /Week-Four/
mathjax: true
---

## MATH 2720 (01) - DISCRETE MATHEMATICS

## Week 4

### Scenario -

Two aliens, Alice and Bob, come to Earth. Confused about all the comings and goings they find themself attempting to make sense of the binomial identity: ${n\choose k} = {n\choose n-k}$. You run into them deliberating at Tea Terminals on University. Help Alice and Bob by explaining the binomial identity in at least two different ways!

### Response -

At it's core $n \choose k$ is what you actually choose and $n\choose n-k$ is whatever you didnt choose.

For example:

$$A=\{a,b,c,d\}$$

$${4\choose 2} \longleftrightarrow {4\choose 4-2}\\\{A,B\} \longleftrightarrow \{C,D\} \\\{A,C\} \longleftrightarrow \{B,D\} \\\{A,D\} \longleftrightarrow \{B,C\} \\\{B,C\} \longleftrightarrow \{A,D\} \\\{B,D\} \longleftrightarrow \{A,C\} \\\{C,D\} \longleftrightarrow \{A,B\} \\$$

As you can see above the set on the right is the objects that were not chosen and the set on the left is the objects that were chosen.

Lets say for example you are playing a game of kickball. There are n amount of players to pick from and you get to pick all of your players first, this is \\(n\choose k)\\. Now since you picked your team first the other team is stuck with whoever wasnt picked which happens to be n-k.

When you make the choice to include k objects you are essentially also making the choice not to include n-k objects.

I will admit heavy inspiration was taken from this [stack article](https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/849758/why-n-choose-k-n-choose-n-k), but it really helped me understand this binomial identity.
